[PowerToys] Shortcut Guide V2 docs (#5717)
MicrosoftDocs/windows-uwp: hub/powertoys/shortcut-guide.md

---
title: PowerToys Shortcut Guide Utility for Windows

> description: Learn how to use PowerToys Shortcut Guide to display shortcuts of Windows an other applications. View common keyboard shortcuts, window positioning, and taskbar shortcuts with this Windows utility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to use PowerToys Shortcut Guide to display shortcuts of Windows and other applications. View common keyboard shortcuts, window positioning, and taskbar shortcuts with this Windows utility.
```

Reviewer: Should we use "other apps" or "third-party apps"?

Author: It can be both thord-party but also first-party apps

ms.date: 10/28/2025
ms.topic: concept-article
no-loc: [PowerToys, Windows, File Explorer]
# customer intent: As a Windows power user, I want to learn how to use the Shortcut Guide utility for Windows.
---

# Shortcut Guide V2

> The PowerToys Shortcut Guide displays shortcuts for Windows and other apps.

Reviewer: "other apps" or "third-party apps"? I think I prefer third-party.

:::image type="content" source="../images/pt-shortcut-guide.png" alt-text="Screenshot of PowerToys Shortcut Guide showing shortcuts for window management and virtual desktops.":::

## Currently supported applications

Currently the following applications are supported out-of-box:
- Windows Explorer
- Windows Shell (Desktop)
- Microsoft PowerToys
- Notepad

> [!NOTE]

> > Applications can add their own manifests containing the to be displayed shortcuts according to the [manifest specification](https://aka.ms/powertoys-sg-manifest).

Reviewer 2: Typo

## Get started

> Invoking the Shortcut Guide is as simple as pressing the shortcut (by default: Win + Shift + / (On US Keyboards)). This will bring up a window with the Shortcuts for the currently focused window. If Shortcut Guide does not know of any shortcuts of the currently focused window it will default to the shortcuts of the Windows operating system.

Reviewer: Some small suggestions. Our style guide suggests not using the future tense.
```suggestion
Invoking the Shortcut Guide is as simple as pressing the shortcut (by default: Win + Shift + / (on U.S. Keyboards)). This brings up a window with the Shortcuts for the currently focused window. If Shortcut Guide doesn't know of any shortcuts for the currently focused window, it defaults to the shortcuts defined in Windows.
```

> The Overview page shows some recommended shortcuts, your pinned shortcuts and if it is the overview page of the Windows operating system, also Taskbar shortcuts (described below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Overview page shows some recommended shortcuts, your pinned shortcuts, and if it's the Windows overview page, then Taskbar shortcuts (described below) are also shown.
```

:::image type="content" source="../images/pt-shortcut-guide-main-window.png" alt-text="Screenshot of PowerToys Shortcut Guide showing the overview page with pinned shortcuts.":::

On the left-hand side you can choose between all the currently supported applications that are running and view their shortcuts. On the top you can choose between different categories of shortcuts (like Window Management, Virtual Desktops, etc.) of the currently selected application.

To close Shortcut Guide either press the close button in the top right corner, press the Escape key, or click outside of the Shortcut Guide window.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The PowerToys app must be running and Shortcut Guide must be enabled in the PowerToys settings for this feature to be used.

### Taskbar shortcuts

> If the overview page of the Windows operating system is shown, the Taskbar shortcuts are also displayed at the bottom of the window. These shortcuts allow quick access to the pinned applications on the Taskbar by pressing a shortcut (for instance <kbd>Win + [Number]</kbd>), where <kbd>[Number]</kbd> corresponds to the position of the application on the Taskbar (from left to right, starting with 1). These numbers are displayed on top of the application icons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the overview page of Windows is shown, the Taskbar shortcuts are also displayed at the bottom of the window. These shortcuts allow quick access to the pinned applications on the Taskbar by pressing a shortcut (for instance <kbd>Win + [Number]</kbd>), where <kbd>[Number]</kbd> corresponds to the position of the application on the Taskbar (from left to right, starting with 1). These numbers are displayed on top of the application icons.
```

:::image type="content" source="../images/pt-shortcut-guide-taskbar-numbers.png" alt-text="Screenshot of PowerToys Shortcut Guide showing taskbar shortcuts at the bottom of the window.":::

### Pinning/Unpinning shortcuts

> You can right-click on any shortcut and select "Pin" to pin it to the overview page of the currently selected application"or "Unpin" to remove it from the overview page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can right-click on any shortcut and select "Pin" to pin it to the overview page of the currently selected application or "Unpin" to remove it from the overview page.
```
